--- PAGE 1 ---
Tragedy Looper Rei
Observer’s Handbook
Suchalovelygamethisis.
--- PAGE 2 ---
Greetings from the Observer
Welcome,ohbraveProtagonists.Welcome,ohenigmaticMasterminds.
Manyatimehaveyouconqueredtragedy,andmanyatimehaveyourtragediesconquered.
Andattheculminationofallthosegameboards,herenowyoustand.
Thisistheendofhours,whereintimefoldsuponitselftobecomealookoutofahigherorder.
Fromthisvantage,Ihaveobservedyourgamesinawaythatnotevenyouhavebeenableto.
Suchcruel,suchrich,suchentertaininggames.
…Iapologizeformydiscourteousness.Imeannottoaffront.
Imerelywishforyoutoallowmetojointheranksofyourpieces.
Therearemanyfragmentsinthisplace.Fragmentsofforgottenpurpose,fragmentsofnewfaces,and
fragmentsshowingawaytotheorigin,theplacethatisthestart,andtheend,ofyourjourney.
Thoughwhatyouwillseetherenowisofcoursenotthesameaswhatyousawthen.
…Ah,yes.Ialsohavethisoldmirror.
Ifyouaretrulyinsatiable,perhapsyouwouldliketovisitanotherworld?
Whateveryourchoice,allowmetoonceagainwelcomeyoufromthebottomofmyheart.
Youwhohavefoughtthroughrainandsnow,takingdestinybythereins.
Igifttoyoutheseraiments,asproofofyourreign,andraiseatoastinyourhonor.
Please,doenjoyyourstay.
Contents
● Components
● Additional Rules
● Sample Script
● FAQ
Components
● Character Cards (4)
○ Four new companions have joined the pieces who adorn your game board.
● Action Cards (8)
○ The Protagonists and Mastermind have access to new abilities. However, none of
these cards are added to the players’ hands at the start of the game. Details will
follow.
● Counters and Tokens (33)
○ Hope Counters (6)
--- PAGE 3 ---
■ Represent the hope that a character may hold. Only the Protagonists can
place these. They count as 1 Goodwill and -1 Intrigue, and remove
Goodwill Refusal.
○ Despair Counter (6)
■ Represent the despair that a character may suffer. Only the Mastermind
can place these. They count as 1 Paranoia and 1 Intrigue, and grant
Goodwill Refusal.
○ Perished Tokens (10)
■ Mark if a character has ever died over the course of the entire game.
○ Acquainted Tokens (10)
■ Mark if a character’s Goodwill ability was ever used/refused over the
course of the entire game.
○ Loyalty Token (1)
■ Marks the target of the Servant’s ability.
Images of these components can be found at counters-1.png and counters-2.png .
● Rulebooks (3)
○ This book, plus the books for the new Tragedy Sets.
● Summary Sheets (16)
○ Summary sheets for the new Tragedy Sets, and updated versions for the old
○ Tragedy Sets
Additional Rules
“Hope +1” and “Despair +1”
“Hope +1” is a Protagonist Action card, and “Despair +1” is a Mastermind Action card. These
cards are by default not in the players’ hands at the start of loops, but are added to their hands
by various effects. These effects are included in both the new Tragedy Sets, and as an optional
expansion ruleset to previous Tragedy Sets. The effects of these cards are as follows:
Hope +1
Place 1 Hope counter on this character, and remove “Hope +1” from each player’s hand. If two
or more players played “Hope +1” on the same day, treat all those cards as “Goodwill +1” cards
instead. (Do not remove them from the players’ hands.)
Despair +1
(1x∞) Place 1 Despair counter on this character.
--- PAGE 4 ---
“Paranoia +2” and “Goodwill +1”
“Paranoia +2” is a Protagonist Action card, and “Goodwill +1” is a Mastermind Action card.
These cards are only used in the “Another Horizon” Tragedy Set. The effects of these cards are
as follows:
Paranoia +2
(1x∞) Place 2 Paranoia counters on this character. “Forbid Paranoia” prevents the effect of this
card. Resolve this card before a “Paranoia -1” on the same character.
Goodwill +1
Place 1 Goodwill counter on this character.
(Note for Masterminds: You may choose to use these cards even outside of Another Horizon as
a special rule for a script. It’s up to you to explore these possibilities to make a script as only you
can.)
Hope and Despair Counters
These counters may be placed on characters, and each have multiple effects. To put it
concisely, Hope is very good, and Despair very bad, for the Protagonists.
Hope Counters
● If a rule or effect counts Goodwill counters, this counts toward that total.
● If a rule or effect counts Intrigue counters, this counts as 1 against (to a minimum of 0).
● The character this is on loses Goodwill Refusal.
Despair Counters
● If a rule or effect counts Paranoia counters, this counts toward that total.
● If a rule or effect counts Intrigue counters, this counts toward that total.
● The character this is on gains Mandatory Goodwill Refusal.
Despite having multiple effects, a single Hope or Despair counter is still considered only a single
counter. For example, if the A.I. has a Despair counter on it, its Trait will not count the Despair
counter twice.
If an effect cares about whether a specific type of counter exists or not, Despair and Hope will
count as Paranoia and Goodwill, and for or against Intrigue. (Think of it as if the condition
checks if there is 1 or more of that type of counter.)
The effect of removing Goodwill Refusal applies to all forms of Goodwill Refusal, including
Mandatory and Puppeted.
--- PAGE 5 ---
Effects that remove Goodwill Refusal supersede effects that add it. In other words, Hope does
not succumb to Despair.
Perished and Acquainted Tokens
In order to determine the Roles of the characters, it is important to keep track of if their Goodwill
abilities have been used, and if their death had any effects. Until now, players mostly did so by
taking notes. These new tokens are used as an aide to simplify such notes.
Using these tokens is by default optional, and their inclusion is up to the Mastermind to decide.
However, in the new Tragedy Set “Last Liar”, they are mandatory, not optional.
Acquainted Tokens
The first time the use of a given character’s Goodwill ability is declared, regardless of whether
that Goodwill ability is refused, place an Acquainted token on that character. These tokens are
double-sided, to help record whether the ability was refused or not. These tokens are not
removed between loops.
If a Goodwill ability from a character that already has an Acquainted token is declared, do not
add further such tokens. Tokens are different from counters, so effects that care about counters
do not affect tokens.
Adding a token happens before the ability itself or any other effect that triggers off of using the
ability resolves. As such, no effect can prevent the token from being placed.
Perished Tokens
The first time a given character dies, place a Perished token on that character’s corpse. These
tokens are not removed between loops.
If a character that already has a Perished token dies, do not add further such tokens. Tokens
are different from counters, so effects that care about counters do not affect tokens.
If an effect such as Unkillable prevents a death from occurring entirely, do not place a Perished
token. As before, the Mastermind is not obliged to indicate anything has happened (or failed to
happen).
Adding a token happens before any other effect that triggers off of the death resolves. As such,
if the character indeed dies, no effect can prevent the token from being placed.
--- PAGE 6 ---
Regarding 1x∞ Goodwill Abilities
Various aspects of this expansion interact with 1x∞ Goodwill abilities in important ways, so we
are making a minor adjustment to the rules.
If a 1x∞ Goodwill ability is declared and then refused, that does not count towards the 1x∞ limit
for that ability. Therefore, the Protagonists may attempt to use that ability again the following day
(though normally it will simply be refused again).
If the Mastermind somehow uses a 1x∞ Goodwill ability, that counts towards its limit. If the
Protagonists later attempt to use that ability, the Mastermind should announce that the ability
has already been used.
New Characters
This expansion contains 4 new characters: Part-Timer, Part-Timer(?), Servant, and Metaworld
Denizen. The Part-Timer, Servant, and Metaworld Denizen may all be included in a script as any
other character would. However, the Part-Timer(?) can only be added to the game due to the
Part-Timer’s Trait, and cannot be written directly into a script.
Multiple Starting Locations
If a character has multiple printed starting locations, and no Trait detailing how to place them at
the start of the loop, that character must be assigned one of their possible starting locations at
script creation, which applies to all loops.
(The Henchman has a Trait that specifies how his starting location works, and so continues to
function as before.)
Character Introductions
Part-Timer
Adult / Male
Paranoia Limit: 1
Starting Location: City
Trait:
This card ignores its assigned Role and is a Person instead.
Trait:
At the end of the day, if there are 3 or more total counters on this character, he dies.
Trait:
At the start of the day, if this card is dead, place "Part-Timer(?)" in the City.
--- PAGE 7 ---
Part-Timer(?)
Girl
Paranoia Limit: 3
Starting Location: City
Trait:
This character has the same Role, and is the culprit of the same Incident(s), as
"Part-Timer".
Goodwill 3 (1x∞):
Reveal this character's Role. Place 2 Goodwill on any character at this location.
Servant
Adult / Female
Paranoia Limit: 3
Starting Location: City/School
Trait:
If the Rich Man's Daughter or Boss would move from this character's location, she
moves with that character, ignoring her original movement if needed. (If this could move her in
multiple ways, the Leader decides which.) If the Rich Man's Daughter or Boss is at her location
and would die, she dies instead.
Goodwill 4 (1x∞):
Choose any other character in play. For the remainder of the loop, that character is also
included in the above Trait.
Metaworld Denizen
Girl
Paranoia Limit: 2
Starting Location: Shrine
Goodwill 3 (1x∞):
Place 1 Hope or Despair counter on a character at this location. If this character has
Goodwill Refusal and at least 1 Goodwill counter, the Mastermind may use this ability as their
own.
(TL Note: The printed card says “another character at this location”, which differs from what the
rulebook says. This error has been acknowledged by BakaFire, and he has declared the version
in the rulebook as official. Therefore the physical cards are currently incorrect, though he has
released a corrected image online.)
--- PAGE 8 ---
Detailed Character Abilities
Part-Timer(?)
● The Leader chooses a character at the Part-Timer(?)’s location.
● The Mastermind announces the Part-Timer’s Role, then places 2 Goodwill on the chosen
character.
Servant
● The Leader chooses a character at any location.
● For the rest of the loop, the Servant’s Trait is also affected by the chosen character.
Place the Servant’s Loyalty token on that character as a reminder.
Metaworld Denizen
● The Leader chooses a character at the Metaworld Denizen’s location, and either Hope or
Despair.
● The Mastermind places the chosen type of counter on the chosen character.
● If the Metaworld Denizen has Goodwill Refusal and at least 1 Goodwill counter, during
the Mastermind abilities phase, the Mastermind may use this ability to place a Hope or
Despair counter on any other character at the Metaworld Denizen’s location. As with
Role abilities, they do not have to explain why this happened.
Character Advice
Part-Timer/Part-Timer(?)
(★★★☆☆: Intermediate)
A convenience store worker dies, and a mysterious girl appears. Her ability is powerful and
revealing, but the difficulty of getting her to arrive in the first place also makes her suitable for
concealing a Role. The abilities of her Role are also naturally harder to use, which allows for
some fine balancing of script difficulty. Who exactly is the “Part-Time Warrior” of this world line?
Servant
(★★★★☆: Advanced)
A traditional maid, and a strict one at that. Rules-wise, her ability is fairly simple, but also fairly
easy to accidentally forget or resolve incorrectly, making her best suited for advanced players. In
particular, both the Mastermind and Protagonists should collaborate to keep an eye on her
movement and achieve world peace. Her movement restriction is probably stronger than you
imagine it to be, so separating her from her charges is difficult. It’s interesting to have her in a
script where the grouping of characters is important.
Metaworld Denizen
(★★★☆☆: Intermediate)
--- PAGE 9 ---
She is not human. She transcends even the so-called “Godly Beings” of the human world.
Indeed, she is more of a concept than an entity, and her manifestation a quirk of the metaworld.
Her ability is simple and straightforward, and can allow for more exposure to this expansion’s
mechanics. But be careful as Despair counters can make it easy to accidentally create a Taboo.
Is she a blessing, or a curse? How does a spectator act when placed on stage?
New Rules in Previous Tragedy Sets
It is possible to include this expansion’s new mechanics in previously released Tragedy Sets by
augmenting them. This option is available to the Mastermind at script creation. If they choose to
do so, they should should append a “+” to the Tragedy Set’s name on the script cards, for
example “Basic Tragedy+”. Adding these rules generally increases the difficulty of a script, so do
so judiciously.
In an augmented Tragedy Set, an additional Subplot, Role, and 2 Incidents are available. When
creating such a script, choose 2 of the now 8 possible Subplots. The Incidents may be added as
any other Incident would be. The new Fragment Role requires some additional accommodation.
Fragments and the Final Guess
After all other Roles have been assigned, choose one Person to instead become a Fragment.
However, during the Final Guess, the Fragment does not have to be identified as such: if the
Fragment is named as a Person, that is also considered to be correct.
Additional Subplot: Crossing World Lines
Roles: 1 Conspiracy Theorist
Additional Rule:
[Mandatory: Loop start] At the start of even numbered loops, the Mastermind adds "+1 Despair"
to hand. At the start of the final loop, the Protagonists add "+1 Hope" to hand.
Additional Role: Fragment
[Mandatory: Loop start] If this character was dead at the end of the previous loop, the
Mastermind adds "+1 Despair" to hand.
[Mandatory: Loop start] If this character was alive and had 2+ Goodwill at the end of the
previous loop, the Protagonists add "+1 Hope" to hand.
Additional Incident: The Light of Hope
The Leader chooses a character. Place a Hope counter on that character. When determining
whether this Incident triggers, use Goodwill counters instead of the original counter type.
Additional Incident: The Murk of Despair
Place a Despair counter on any character.
--- PAGE 10 ---
What Next?
Thank you for reading this far. This concludes the introduction of the new general rules in this
expansion. Based on how you wish to enjoy the game, please consider the following options as
to what to read next.
New to Tragedy Looper?
First play a game without these new rules, using “First Steps” or “Basic Tragedy”, included in the
base game.
Want to try Hope, Despair, and the new characters?
Try the sample script that follows, “Approaching Zero”.
Want to try the new Tragedy Sets?
Read the rules for “Last Liar”, and play a game using that Set. The other Tragedy Set included
in this expansion, “Another Horizon”, is also an appealing option, but it is intended for
particularly experienced players. We strongly recommend that you first play with “Last Liar”.
Sample Script
(TL Note: I have instead placed that script in a separate document as a form of protection
against accidental spoilers.)
Approaching Zero
General FAQ
These are questions and answers concerning the new rules in this expansion. They are mostly
questions we speculate will come up frequently, based on our playtesting. If you have any
questions about the rules, please first read through these thoroughly.
Hope and Despair
Q1: Can these counters be placed on locations?
A1: No.
Q2: Can “Despair +1”/“Hope +1” be prevented with “Forbid Intrigue”/“Forbid Goodwill”?
A2: No. As such, “Despair +1” can also be used as an “Intrigue +1” that cannot be
Forbidden, and “Hope +1” can also be used as a “Goodwill +1” in the same way.
Q3: There is a Despair counter on the Nurse. Can her Goodwill ability be used?
--- PAGE 11 ---
A3: Yes, if she has sufficient Goodwill. The Nurse is given Mandatory Goodwill Refusal by
the Despair, but the effect of her ability means she will still not refuse anyways. The same is true
for the Mystery Boy and the Copycat.
Q4: The Doctor has 2 Goodwill and 1 Despair. Can the Mastermind use his ability?
A4: Yes, as the Doctor is given Mandatory Goodwill Refusal. The same is true for the
Metaworld Denizen.
Q5: The A.I. has 3 Intrigue and 1 Hope, and is the culprit of an Incident. Will that Incident
trigger?
A5: Yes. The A.I. treats all counters on it as Paranoia for the purposes of triggering Incidents,
including the Hope counter. While the Hope counter reduces the total amount of Intrigue on a
character, the amount of Intrigue isn’t being counted here.
Q6: What if the A.I. had 2 Paranoia and 1 Despair instead?
A6: The Incident doesn’t trigger. Both the A.I.’s Trait and the effects of the Despair counter
count it towards total Paranoia, but a single counter is still only a single counter, and is not
counted twice. The case with the Sacrifice is similar.
Q7: Does the Little Sister gain Mandatory Goodwill Refusal with a Despair counter?
A7: Yes. Her Trait only applies during script creation.
Q8: The Informer refused to use her Goodwill ability. On the next day, a Hope counter is
placed on her. Can the Protagonists attempt to use her ability again?
A8: Yes. A refused Goodwill ability does not count towards its 1x∞ limit.
Q9: Does the Scientist’s ability remove his Hope or Despair counters?
A9: Yes.
Q10: Can the Forensic Specialist’s ability move Hope or Despair counters?
A10: Yes.
Q11: The Boy Student has 1 Paranoia and 1 Despair. Can the Nurse’s ability remove his
Paranoia?
A11: Yes. The Despair counts towards Paranoia, so the Boy Student is panicked in this
situation. However, the Nurse’s ability cannot remove the Despair counter. The same is true for
the Sect Founder.
Q12: The Sacred Tree has a Hope or Despair counter. Can those counters be moved with its
Trait?
A12: Yes.
Q13: In “Threads of Fate”, at the start of a loop, are Paranoia counters placed on characters
who had a Hope counter at the end of the previous loop?
--- PAGE 12 ---
A13: Yes. The Hope counters are counted towards total Goodwill.
Q14: The Loved One has 1 Despair and 2 Paranoia. Can their ability be used?
A14: Yes. The Despair counter is counted towards both total Paranoia and Intrigue. The case
with the Sacrifice is similar.
Q15: Can I place a Hope or Despair counter with the Butterfly Effect?
A15: No. While the wording on the summary sheets appears to allow this, the full description
in the rulebook specifies that the placed counter must be Goodwill, Paranoia, or Intrigue.
Q16: In Cosmic Mythology, does a character refusing their Goodwill ability with the Mandatory
Goodwill Refusal granted by a Despair counter cause the Extra Gauge to increase?
A16: Yes.
Perished and Acquainted Tokens
Q17: The Alien kills the Key Person Boy Student with her Goodwill ability. What is the order of
resolution of effects, including placing tokens?
A17: First, the Alien’s ability is announced. This causes an Acquainted token to be placed on
her. Next, the Mastermind resolves the effect of that ability, causing the Boy Student to die,
which in turn causes a Perished token to be placed on her. Finally, the Key Person’s ability
triggers, causing the loop to end with a Protagonist loss.
Q18: The Transfer Student is not on the game board. Does she keep her Perished and
Acquainted tokens?
A18: Yes. Neither counters nor tokens are removed when a character is removed from a
board. (However, counters are removed when setting up for a new loop.) The same is true for
the Illusion and the Part-Timer(?).
New Characters
Q19: The Part-Timer died, and the next day, the Part-Timer(?) was placed in the City. On the
day following that one, is another Part-Timer(?) placed?
A19: No. There is only 1 Part-Timer(?) in the game, so more cannot be placed.
Q20: In “Sign with me!”, can the Part-Timer be assigned to be the Key Person?
A20: No. While the Key Person would effectively be the Part-Timer(?), the Role would need to
first be assigned to the Part-Timer, which is not allowed. For a similar reason, the Part-Timer
can be assigned the Role of Ninja in “Male Confrontation”.
Q21: So that would mean in “The Noble Bloodline” the Key Person and Vampire could both
end up being Girls. This arouses me.
A21: I suppose that is the case, yes.
Q22: In “Fated Connections”, the Part-Timer has an Extra card. What is his Role?
--- PAGE 13 ---
A22: He is a Key Person. First his Trait overrides his initial Role to be a Person, which is then
further overridden to be a Key Person.
Q23: The Part-Timer is an Obstinate. Must he still be the culprit of an Incident?
A23: Yes. His Trait only changes him to be a Person while the game is actually being played.
It does not affect any requirements during script creation.
Q24: The Servant is a Serial Killer, and is alone with the Rich Man’s Daughter at the end of
the day. What happens? Furthermore, what if the RMD is Unkillable?
A24: In the former case, the Servant would die in the RMD’s place. In the latter case, there is
no death to replace, so neither dies.
Q25: The Servant and RMD are in the same location. What happens if “Forbid Movement” is
played on the Servant, and “Horizontal Movement” is played on the RMD?
A25: The Servant ignores her own movement, including Forbid Movement, and follows the
RMD.
Q26: The Metaworld Denizen has Goodwill Refusal.
1. The Mastermind used her ability. Can the Protagonists then also use it?
2. The Protagonists used her ability and it was not refused. Can the Mastermind then also
use it?
3. The Protagonists used her ability and it was refused. Can the Mastermind then use it?
A26:
1. No. The 1x∞ limit has already been reached.
2. No, for the same reason as above.
3. Yes. A refused Goodwill ability does not count towards its 1x∞ limit.
Additional Rules
Q27: In an augmented Tragedy Set, can “Crossing World Lines” be named with the Informer’s
Goodwill ability?
A27: Yes.
Q28: In an augmented Tragedy Set, can the Mystery Boy or Copycat be assigned to be the
Fragment?
A28: The Mystery Boy can’t, because the Role isn’t added to the Tragedy Set by normal
means. The Copycat can, because there will be another character with the Role for him to copy.
Still have questions?
If you have a question, and couldn’t find the answer in the above FAQ, please contact BakaFire
at “ba********@*****il.com”.
(TL Note: I have censored the address to prevent potential abuse. The full address can be
found on the game’s homepage. BakaFire does speak a little bit of English, and welcomes
messages from fans.)
--- PAGE 14 ---
Last Liar FAQ
Plots
Q1: How does the timing for the Traitor victory conditions work? For example, if a Serial Killer
causes Protagonist A’s victory condition to be fulfilled, but there are also 2 Intrigue counters on
the Shrine to enable the rule from “The Sealed Conclusion”, can the Mastermind kill the
Protagonists?
A1: The conditions are constantly checked while in the appropriate phase. In this case,
Protagonist A would win as soon as the Serial Killer kills.
Q2: Does an effect that causes the Protagonists to die also cause Traitors to die? For
example, a Hospital Incident causes Protagonist A’s victory condition to be fulfilled, but also
causes the Protagonists to die. Can Protagonist A claim victory?
A2: Traitors are still considered Protagonists, so they die to such effects as well. As the Day
end phase is never reached, the next time Victory Condition A would be checked is at the end of
the first day of the next loop. If it was already the final loop in this scenario, Protagonist A has
lost.
Q3: Are tokens on cards not on the game board, such as the Transfer Student, Illusion, and
Part-Timer(?) counted towards Victory Conditions A and B?
A3: Yes. The Victory Conditions don’t care about where the cards that the tokens are on are.
Q4: In “The Final Plan”, the Key Person has a Hope counter. What happens if Protagonist A
or B’s victory condition is met?
A4: They are not currently Traitors, so they don’t win the game from the Traitor victory
conditions. However, as the Hope counter is removed between loops, it is likely that such a
Traitor would win at the appropriate time on the first day of the next loop.
Q5: In “The Final Plan”, the Protagonists use the Metaworld Denizen’s Goodwill ability to
place a Hope counter on the Key Person, but using ability places a 6th Acquainted token,
fulfilling Protagonist B’s victory condition. What happens?
A5: The Acquainted token is placed as soon as the ability is declared, before it resolves.
Protagonist B wins.
Q6: In “The Final Plan”, the Key Person has a Hope counter during the final loop, then dies,
causing a Protagonist loss. What happens to the Traitor Protagonist C?
A6: As they were not a Traitor at the time, they do not have the opportunity to identify
culprits. All of the Protagonists work together to make a Final Guess.
Q7: In “The Demon's Script”, the Watcher has only a single Despair counter at the end of the
last day. Can the Mastermind kill the Protagonists? What if the Watcher had 1 Intrigue and 1
Hope?
--- PAGE 15 ---
A7: Yes in the former case, no in the latter. When counting the total number of counters,
Hope and Despair counters each count as only 1.
Q8: There is no Secretkeeper in my script, so I added a Killer with the effect of “The
Mythomaniac's Secret”. Furthermore, the Main Plot is not “The Final Plan”, so there would not
have originally been a Killer. Can the Mystery Boy be set as a Killer?
A8: Yes. The Mystery Boy only cares about Roles added automatically by the Plots, not
about those added by the Additional Rules of the Plot.
Q9: In “The Final Plan” combined with “The Mythomaniac’s Secret”, there are 2 Killers. If the
Copycat is then set to be a third Killer, whose name should be announced when his ability is
used?
A9: The names of both other Killers should be announced.
Roles and Incidents
Q10: How do effects that refer to a character’s starting location, such as the Influencer or
Distortion, interact with the Henchman and Servant?
A10: For the Henchman, use the location he started this loop at. For the Servant, use the
location specified for her during script creation.
Q11: There are 2 Influencers. The first used a Goodwill ability, and thus had their 1x∞ ability
trigger. What happens if the second then also uses a Goodwill ability?
A11: The second Influencer’s 1x∞ ability also triggers. Unlike the Magician, the 1x∞ limit on
the Influencer’s ability applies to each individual, rather than to the whole Role.
Q12: What is the meaning of “end of that day or last day” in the Secretkeeper’s ability on the
summary sheet?
A12: This is to make sure the Mastermind can still win with the ability, even if it was triggered
on the last day of a loop. A more explicit description is in the Last Liar rulebook.
Q13: In the case where the Secretkeeper’s ability is triggered on the last day of a loop, does
that mean that the Mastermind can only play 1 Action card on the first day of the next loop?
A13: No. “Next day” means the next day of this loop specifically.
Q14: When choosing a Protagonist for The Executor, can the Mastermind look at the
Protagonists’ Extra Cards?
A14: No, The Executor doesn’t have such an effect. The Mastermind should try to deduce
which Protagonist will choose a beneficial target based on the Protagonists’ actions thus far.
Q15: The A.I. is the culprit of The Light of Hope. How many and what kind of counters are
required for it to trigger?
A15: 4 Goodwill counters are required (not accounting for Hope counters).
--- PAGE 16 ---
Q16: A Distortion or Hospital Incident triggered. If in “The Sealed Conclusion”, are Hope and
Despair counters on characters at the relevant location also considered for the Intrigue total?
A16: Yes.
Q17: What is the Mystery Boy’s role?
A17: Iamtherebelwholurksinthedarkness.Thejesterwhoplays,butplaysatyourexpense.Yes—Iamthe
WILDCARD.Nowcome,joinme,andweshallwaltztothesweetsoundofchaos!
Q18: Oh, so there’s no Traitor then? Alright everyone, let’s crush this Mastermind.
A18: W-wait, that’s not wha—
Another Horizon FAQ
Plots
Q1: Can the A.I. be assigned to be a “L: Person / D: Serial Killer”, or the Little Sister to be a
“L: Key Person / D: Brain”?
A1: Yes. Dual Roles ignore all Role assignment restrictions, including Role maxima.
Q2: Can the Mystery Boy be assigned to be a Dual Role such as “L: Obstinate / D: Key
Person”? Alternatively, if another character is a “L: Obstinate / D: Key Person”, can he be
assigned to be either an Obstinate or Key Person?
A2: Neither of these are possible. The Mystery Boy must be assigned a single Role that
exists in neither the Light nor Dark World.
(TL Note: This feels to me like it directly contradicts the previous answer…)
Q3: Can the Copycat copy a Dual Role, such as “L: Key Person / D: Brain”? If so, what
happens if his Goodwill ability is used?
A3: Yes, this is possible. If his Goodwill ability is used, the Mastermind should name all
characters who share his current Role.
Q4: The Subplots are “Jekyll and Hyde” and “The Plaguebringer”. Can the Dual Roles be
mixed-and-matched, to create “L: Key Person / D: Gossip” and “L: Pied Piper / D: Brain”?
A4: No. The Roles are specifically "L: Key Person / D: Brain" and "L: Pied Piper / D: Gossip".
Q5: The "L: Key Person / D: Brain" Office Worker died in the Dark World. Later, in the Light
World, the Forensic Special used his second Goodwill ability to reveal the dead Office Worker’s
Role. What Role should be announced?
A5: Key Person should be announced. Dual Roles are always considered to be only the
Role appropriate to the current World.
Q6: The Scientist used his ability to increase the Extra Gauge. If a Warp is supposed to
happen that day, does the Extra Gauge increase again?
--- PAGE 17 ---
A6: Yes. The Scientist directly manipulates the Extra Gauge without Warping, so the Warp
still happens as the once per day limit has not been reached.
Q7: If the Class Rep has Puppeted Goodwill Refusal, can the Mastermind use her ability to
return “Despair +1” to their hand?
A7: Yes, if they have used that card previously in this loop.
Q8: In “Into Nothingness”, the Extra Gauge is at 3. If the Obstinate has only a single Hope
counter at loop end, do the Protagonists lose?
A8: Yes. The number of Intrigue counters on the Obstinate is 0, not -1, as it cannot be
negative. That combined with the Extra Gauge of 3 fulfills the loss condition.
Q9: In “Into Nothingness”, the Copycat is copying the Obstinate. If there are 2 Intrigue
counters on the Copycat and the Extra Gauge is at 1 at the end of the loop, do the Protagonists
lose?
A9: No. The Copycat is only copying the Role added by the Plot. He is not actually the
specific Obstinate that the Plot added.
Q10: In “Into Nothingness”, the Illusion is the Obstinate, and has 4 Intrigue and 1 Hope. She is
then removed from the board using her Goodwill ability. Do the Protagonists lose at the end of
the loop?
A10: No. The rule from the Plot checks for the living or dead Obstinate, but cannot find the
Obstinate if they are not on the board. (Contrast this with Last Liar’s Victory Conditions, which
check for the tokens on the characters, not the characters themselves.)
Q11: In “Puppeteer’s Strings”, the Henchman is the Obstinate. If the Mastermind uses the
Henchman’s Goodwill ability, will he trigger his Incident?
A11: No. If an effect forces an Incident or other effect to trigger, and another effect prevents it,
the prevention takes precedence.
Roles
Q12: The Police Officer is a Marionette, and has 5 Goodwill. What happens if he uses his
second Goodwill ability on himself?
A12: First, the effects of his Goodwill ability places a Guard counter on himself. After that
ability resolves, the ability of the Marionette triggers. As he now has at least 2 kinds of counters
(Goodwill and Guard), that effect causes him to die, and causes a Warp. The death is replaced
by removing the Guard counter. The net effect is that only a Warp will happen.
Q13: The Scientist is a Marionette, with 2+ kinds of counters on him. What happens if his
Goodwill ability is used?
A13: The Scientist will remove all counters from himself, so when the Marionette’s ability
triggers, it sees 0 kinds of counters and does nothing.
--- PAGE 18 ---
Q14: The Illusion is a Marionette, with 2+ kinds of counters on her. What happens if her
second Goodwill ability is used?
A14: She is removed from the board. While not on the board, she is not considered a
character, so the Marionette’s ability does nothing.
Q15: The Lullaby is a character whose ability does not target a character, such as the Office
Worker or Henchman. What happens after their Goodwill ability is used?
A15: As there is no character to kill, nothing happens.
Q16: The Forensic Specialist is the Lullaby, and uses his first Goodwill ability to move a
counter from the Office Worker to the Pop Idol. What happens?
A16: Both the Office Worker and Pop Idol die.
Q17: The Journalist is the Lullaby, and the Little Sister uses her Goodwill ability to use one of
the Journalist’s abilities, targeting the Boy Student. What happens?
A17: The Boy Student dies.
Q18: The Servant is the Lullaby, and uses her Goodwill ability on another character at her
location. What happens?
A18: First, the targeted character is added to the Servant’s Trait. Then, the Lullaby’s effect
would cause the targeted character to die, which due to the Servant’s Trait causes her to die
instead.
Q19: The Boss is a Gossip and is in the Hospital, and something causes him to die. The
Servant is in the Boss’s turf, the City. What happens?
A19: The Servant’s Trait doesn’t allow her to protect the Boss, as death isn’t an ability that
would allow the use of the Boss’s Trait. Then the Gossip’s ability, combined with the Boss’s
Trait, places a Despair counter on any character in either the Hospital or City, and optionally
triggers a Warp.
Q20: The Alice used a Goodwill ability when the Extra Gauge was 1 or more, but there were
no other characters at their location. On the next day, they again use a Goodwill ability. What
happens?
A20: Even though there were no other characters at their location, because the Extra Gauge
condition was met and the Alice ability is Mandatory, the 1x∞ limit is considered met, and so
cannot trigger again the next time their Goodwill ability is used. The Mastermind may hide the
Alice in this way.
Q21: What is the Mystery Boy’s role?
A21: Iamlo    le,ad    le,an fu  ofcu    it .Theve  pi   r ofapu  ma    ,p i pan p e  .I’mAli  ,ofco    !
Q22: Who is the Copycat copying?
A22: Mybrother,the“MysteryBoy”.Buthedoesn’tunderstand,andneither,itseems,doyou.
Copy,yousay?I’mtherealone!
--- PAGE 19 ---
Incidents
Q23: The Sect Founder is the culprit of a Crime of Passion. How many Paranoia counters are
needed for the Incident to trigger?
A23: Just 1. The Sect Founder’s Trait doubles the effects of her Incident, including the effect
that decreases the required Paranoia.
Q24: The Henchman is the culprit of a Dimensional Distortion. If his Goodwill ability has been
used, does the Incident trigger?
A24: No.
Q25: On Day 2 of the first loop, The Singularity triggered in the Dark World. During the second
loop, if that same Incident triggers in the Light World, do the Protagonists die? Alternatively,
what happens if a different The Singularity triggers in the Light World on Day 3 of the second
loop?
A25: In the former case, the Protagonists do not die as the Incident had previously triggered
this game, even though it was in the other World. In the latter case, the Protagonists would die.
Q26: What happens if in the Light World the A.I. resolves The Singularity that had not
previously triggered that game? Furthermore, what happens if that Incident then proceeds to
trigger later that loop in the Light World?
A26: In the former case, it would simply cause a Warp. The A.I.’s ability does not count as
triggering the Incident, so it can’t be the first time the Incident has triggered. In the latter case,
the Protagonists would die.