--- PAGE 1 ---
Tragedy Looper Rei
Last Liar
Thecruelestliesareoftentoldinsilence.
—RobertLouisStevenson
--- PAGE 2 ---
Tragedy Set — Last Liar
Pastthemyriadworlds,whatliesbehindthefinaldoor?
Set Concept
Last Liar (LL) is a unique Tragedy Set. It is particularly notable in two ways. First, it was created
with the assumption that Table Talk is off. Second, the possibility of Traitors breaks the
foundation of One versus Many games. That’s right; in this Tragedy Set, the Protagonists are
not necessarily on the same side. Of course, you are no exception.
On the other hand, the complexity isn’t altogether too high. So long as you have played Basic
Tragedy (BT) at least once, you can dive in and enjoy LL. The Set as a whole was constructed
with BT as the base, with many Roles reappearing, so those familiar with BT should find the
transition quite smooth. Indeed, it could be said that if you’re playing with Table Talk off for the
first time, this is a better way of doing it.
It is even easier to acclimatize to the Set by first playing with the expansion’s standalone rules
with the sample script “Approaching Zero”, from the Observer’s Handbook.
The Tragedy Set is based on the concepts of “Showdown” and “Betrayal”. The players have
already passed through many worlds. A world controlled by lies; a world of malice and logic; a
world of monsters run amok; a world trembling when faced with the vastness of the cosmos. At
the end of that journey, you return to the place where you first awoke to your powers. As a wave
of nostalgia washes over you, the Mastermind sneers. Something is wrong with their powers.
Meanwhile, your souls are worn down and weary. Both sides can see an end to your long, long
battle. A final confrontation, fought just as before. You prepare to pit all of your intelligence and
determination against each other.
But something has changed. Not with you, nor with the Mastermind. Somewhere along your
vast journey, they saw it. They saw the truth.
Table Talk and Player Count
When playing with this Tragedy Set, Table Talk must be set to off during loops. Furthermore,
games with this Set must have exactly 4 players (1 Mastermind and 3 Protagonists), no more or
less.
Extra Cards: The Protagonists’ Secret
When setting up for the first loop, the Mastermind randomly deals Extra Cards A, B, and C to
the Protagonists, face-down. The Protagonists may look at their own Extra Card, but no one
else may look at that card, including the Mastermind. These cards are only dealt out once
before the first loop, and persist between loops.
--- PAGE 3 ---
From now on, the Protagonist with the appropriate card will be referred to as Protagonist A,
Protagonist B, or Protagonist C.
Traitors
Three of the Subplots specify a Protagonist to have their own unique victory condition. For
example, "Victory Condition A" applies to Protagonist A. The same is true for B and C.
If the corresponding Subplot is in play, that Protagonist is a Traitor. Their original victory
condition is replaced by the one specified by the Subplot. A Traitor wins with neither the
Protagonist team nor with the Mastermind. Likewise, a Traitor who completes their victory
condition wins independently, and the other players lose.
As there can be two such Subplots in play, there can be as many as two Traitors in a game.
Perished and Acquainted
Some of the rules in this Set reference Perished and Acquainted tokens. As such, when playing
with this Set, the use of those tokens is mandatory. Details on the rules for those tokens can be
found in the Observer’s Handbook.
The Final Guess
Immediately before the Final Guess, the Mastermind must announce which Protagonists were
Traitors. (This incidentally also gives information as to which Subplots were in use.) The Final
Guess is made only by non-Traitor Protagonists. The specific order of events is:
1. If any of the Protagonists were Traitors, reveal them.
2. If Protagonist C was a Traitor, they attempt to identify the culprits of each Incident. If they
do so correctly, they win the game.
3. If the game still continues, the non-Traitor Protagonists make their Final Guess. If they
do so correctly, they win the game.
4. If the game still continues, the Mastermind wins the game.
Furthermore, in other Tragedy Sets, the Protagonists may choose to skip any remaining loops
and proceed immediately to the Final Guess. This is not possible in LL.
Serial Killer Maximum
In this Set, there is a maximum of 1 Serial Killer. This is in order to make it harder to discern if
Protagonist A is a Traitor or not.
--- PAGE 4 ---
Plot Overview
The Main Plots are mostly based on those in BT, and so similar cover stories (CS) can be used.
The distribution of “Key Person (or Factor) death”, “loop end loss”, and “Protagonist death”
conditions have changed slightly, so it’s best to double-check while you come up with an
appropriate CS. Be careful as the change from The Sealed Item to The Sealed Conclusion is
especially large.
The first 3 Subplots each create a Traitor, and the remaining 4 provide support for the script.
Some good things to keep in mind are: the Subplots that introduce a Traitor always have a
Secretkeeper and Wildcard; the number of Secretkeepers is the same as the number of
Traitors; and if there is a Conspiracy Theorist, that takes up the spot of a potential Traitor.
Summary Sheet
A translated summary sheet is available here: Last Liar Summary.png
--- PAGE 5 ---
Main Plots
The Final Plan The Sealed Conclusion
Roles: Roles:
Key Person, Brain, Killer Factor, Fragment
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
If there are 1 or more Hope counters on the At the end of the day, if there are 2 or more
Key Person, Traitors become normal Intrigue counters on the Shrine, you may kill
Protagonists. If this is true at the end of the the Protagonists.
final loop, this carries over to the Final When counting Intrigue counters on a
Guess. location, include Hope and Despair counters
on characters at that location in the total.
World of Rebellion The Demon’s Script
Roles: Roles:
Key Person, Fragment Watcher, Serial Killer
Both of these must be Girls
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
At the end of the loop, if there are 2 or more At the end of the loop, if Last Will or The
Intrigue counters on the Key Person, the Executor has triggered this loop, the
Protagonists lose. Protagonists lose.
At the end of the last day, if there are 1 or
fewer total counters on the Watcher, you
may kill the Protagonists.
Giant Time Bomb Yet Again
Roles:
Brain, Witch
Additional Rules:
At the end of the loop, if there are 2 or more
Intrigue counters on the Witch’s starting
location, the Protagonists lose.
--- PAGE 6 ---
Subplots
The Real Monster Keeper of Mythology
Roles: Roles:
Serial Killer, Secretkeeper, Wildcard Influencer, Secretkeeper, Wildcard
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
Victory Condition A: During the Day end Victory Condition B: During the Protagonists
phase, there are 5 or more Perished tokens. abilities phase, there are 6 or more
Acquainted tokens.
I Am the True Detective! Crossing World Lines
Roles: Roles:
Watcher, Secretkeeper, Wildcard Conspiracy Theorist
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
Victory Condition C: Immediately before the At the start of even numbered loops, the
Final Guess, Protagonist C correctly identifies
Mastermind adds "Despair +1" to hand. At the
the culprit of each Incident.
start of the final loop, the Protagonists add
"Hope +1" to hand.
Unsafe Trigger Social Media Paranoia
Roles: Roles:
Factor Serial Killer, Influencer, Conspiracy Theorist
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
[Optional] (1x∞) During the Mastermind ability (None)
phase, you may place 1 Intrigue on a location
where there is a (living) Factor.
The Mythomaniac’s Secret
Roles:
Conspiracy Theorist
Additional Rules:
The Secretkeeper gains Goodwill Refusal. If
there is no Secretkeeper during script
creation, instead add an additional Killer,
Brain, or Fragment to the script. (It does not
count as a Role specified by this Plot.)
--- PAGE 7 ---
Roles
Key Person Killer
Max: None Max: None
Goodwill Refusal
Abilities: Abilities:
[Mandatory] When this character dies, the [Optional] At the end of the day, if there are 2
Protagonists lose, and the loop immediately or more Intrigue counters on the Key Person,
ends. and they are at this character’s location, you
may have that character die.
[Optional] At the end of the day, if there are 4
or more Intrigue counters on this character,
you may kill the Protagonists.
Plots: Plots:
The Final Plan The Final Plan
World of Rebellion The Mythomaniac’s Secret*
Brain Fragment
Max: None Max: None
Goodwill Refusal
Abilities: Abilities:
[Optional] During each Mastermind abilities [Mandatory] At the start of the loop, if this
phase, you may place 1 Intrigue counter on character was dead at the end of the previous
this character’s location, or on a character at
loop, the Mastermind adds "Despair +1" to
that location.
hand.
[Mandatory] At the start of the loop, if this
character was alive and had 2+ Goodwill at
the end of the previous loop, the Protagonists
add "Hope +1" to hand.
Plots: Plots:
The Final Plan The Sealed Conclusion
Giant Time Bomb Yet Again World of Rebellion
The Mythomaniac’s Secret* The Mythomaniac’s Secret*
Witch Factor
Max: None Max: None
Mandatory Goodwill Refusal Goodwill Refusal
Abilities: Abilities:
(None) [Mandatory] If there are 2 or more Intrigue
counters on the School, this character gains
the Conspiracy Theorist’s ability.
--- PAGE 8 ---
[Mandatory] If there are 2 or more Intrigue
counters on the City, this character gains the
Key Person’s ability.
Plots: Plots:
Giant Time Bomb Yet Again The Sealed Conclusion
Unsafe Trigger
Serial Killer Watcher
Max: 1 (for this Tragedy Set) Max: 1
Unkillable
Abilities: Abilities:
[Mandatory] At the end of the day, if there is [Mandatory] When determining if an Incident
exactly 1 other character at this character’s whose culprit is at this character’s location
location, that character dies. triggers, if that (living) character has 1 or
more Despair counters on them, that Incident
always triggers regardless of what other
counters they have.
Plots: Plots:
The Demon’s Script The Demon’s Script
The Real Monster I am the True Detective!
Social Media Paranoia
Influencer Conspiracy Theorist
Max: None Max: 1
Abilities: Abilities:
[Mandatory] When this character dies, place [Optional] During each Mastermind abilities
1 Paranoia counter on each character who phase, you may place 1 Paranoia counter on
shares this card’s starting location. a character at this character’s location.
[Mandatory] (1x∞) After resolving this
character’s Goodwill ability, place 1 Paranoia
counter and 1 Goodwill counter on each
character who shares this card’s starting
location.
Plots: Plots:
Keeper of Mythology Crossing World Lines
Social Media Paranoia Social Media Paranoia
The Mythomaniac’s Secret
Secretkeeper Wildcard
Max: None Max: 1
Mandatory Goodwill Refusal
--- PAGE 9 ---
Unkillable
Abilities: Abilities:
[Mandatory] When this character dies, or after [Mandatory] If the current day is a multiple of
resolving this character’s Goodwill ability, 3, this character gains the Conspiracy
reveal this character’s Role. Theorist’s, the Brain’s, and the Serial Killer’s
[Mandatory] When this character’s Role is abilities.
revealed, if it’s the first or second loop, the [Mandatory] This character must be the
Mastermind may only play 1 Action card on culprit of an Incident.
the next day. At the end of that day, or this
day if it's already the last day, kill the
Protagonists.
Plots: Plots:
The Real Monster The Real Monster
Keeper of Mythology Keeper of Mythology
I am the True Detective! I am the True Detective!
--- PAGE 10 ---
Incidents
Murder Increasing Unease
One other character at the culprit’s location Place 2 Paranoia counters on any character,
dies, if possible. and 1 Intrigue counter on any other character.
Missing Person Hospital Incident
Move the culprit to any location, then place 1 If there are 1 or more Intrigue counters on the
Intrigue counter on the culprit’s location. Hospital, each character there dies.
Furthermore, if there are 2 or more Intrigue
counters on the Hospital, kill the Protagonists.
The Executor Distortion
Choose a Protagonist, who chooses a If there are 2 or more Intrigue counters on the
character. That character dies. culprit’s starting location, kill the Protagonists.
Otherwise, place 2 Intrigue counters on that
location.
Last Will Confession
The culprit dies. At the start of the next loop, Reveal the culprit and their Role.
the Protagonists add "Hope +1" to hand.
Spreading The Light of Hope
Remove 2 Goodwill counters from any The Leader chooses a character. Place 1
character, and place 2 Goodwill counters on Hope counter on that character.
any other character. When determining if this Incident triggers,
refer to the number of Goodwill counters on
the culprit instead of the original type of
counter.
The Murk of Despair
Place 1 Despair counter on any character.
--- PAGE 11 ---
Script Creation Guide
Introduction
This section is meant for Masterminds intent on creating their own scripts with Last Liar (LL),
and explains some things that are important to know when doing so. It can also be used as a
reference for how to navigate through games as the Mastermind. As this is aimed at
Masterminds, it is recommended that players who intend on playing the Protagonist side to not
read this section to start with. There is a very real risk that doing so will result in being able to
enjoy the Tragedy Set less.
This section will use the abbreviations PP (Power Play) and CS (Cover Story) as described in
the original Mastermind’s Handbook included in the base game. For a detailed explanation of
those terms, please refer to that handbook.
(TL Note: In the Z-Man Games English Translation, “Cover Story” was instead “Coverup”, and
the acronyms were not used.)
The Mastermind is Weak
Great and powerful Mastermind, who controls the rules of the world. I regret to inform you that
your powers have been restrained, and you are not nearly as strong here as you may be used
to. On this stage, you are weak, and thus the battles ahead of you will be difficult.
Perhaps that seems an odd way to start this guide, but I wanted to get across the point that LL
is designed in a way such that the Mastermind can have a tough time winning, and furthermore
that you can’t simply set up a PP as the focus of your script in the same way you could in other
Tragedy Sets. Keep this idea strongly in mind as you craft scripts with this Set.
The main reasons for this are of course the existence of Traitors, and the lack of Table Talk.
Those who have played with Table Talk off before should be aware of just how much more
difficult it is for the Protagonists. On top of that, the possibility of a Traitor makes it even less
likely for them to be able to work together properly. Under those conditions, if the Mastermind
gives themself a powerful win condition, the chances of a Protagonist victory plummet, and can
easily lead to unfun game experiences.
Secretkeepers in the Early Game
While your win conditions are weak, it is of course still important to avoid losing in early loops.
Not only is an early Protagonist win anticlimactic for them, it is outright unpleasant for a Traitor
to lose out of nowhere.
This is where you make use of the Secretkeeper. By preparing ways to kill the Secretkeeper, or
ways for their Role to be revealed such as reliably used Goodwill abilities (e.g. Office Worker,
--- PAGE 12 ---
Class Rep), you can greatly lower the risk of such an anticlimax. This also allows you to
encourage the Traitor, or even just potential Traitors, into working towards their own interests.
Encouraging the Traitor
Because you are so weak, you’ll need to rely on the chaos caused by the Traitor to win in the
later loops. To that end, there are two important things to keep in mind. First, hint to the Traitor
that they could actually be a Traitor. Second, don’t put the Traitor in a position to give up on their
victory condition. Allow me to explain further.
Let’s consider the first point. Even if there is a Traitor, if they don’t suspect that they might in fact
be one, they won’t bother to try to betray the others. In order to hint to a player the possibility of
their treachery, you should show to the players effects (that could be) from some of the relevant
Roles (Secretkeeper, Wildcard, Serial Killer, Influencer, and Watcher). Winning the loop using
the Secretkeeper also furthers this goal. Hinting at a Wildcard is also effective; consider using
the Conspiracy Theorist’s and/or Brain’s abilities aggressively on the 3rd (or 6th) day. The other
three Roles are also somewhat effective for this. In particular, the Serial Killer is usually quite
visible and easy to use. Because of that, it is easy to make it obvious whether or not Protagonist
A is likely to be a Traitor, for better or for worse.
Onto the second point. Consider the case where it’s very likely that Protagonist A is a Traitor,
but it’s the start of the last loop and only 2 Perished tokens have been placed. What will happen
then?
It’s practically impossible for Protagonist A to kill 3 more characters while only being able to play
a single card each day. Seeing that, they are likely to give up on that plan and support the other
Protagonists on the chance that they weren’t actually a Traitor. With the Protagonists now all
working together, it becomes difficult to win as the Mastermind. To avoid this, you must make
sure any possible Traitors feel they still have a chance to complete their victory condition. For
practical advice, let’s consider each potential Traitor individually.
Goading Protagonist A
If you’re trying to make Protagonist A think they might be a Traitor, you’ll want to have at least 3
Perished tokens in play by the start of the last loop. In general, don’t bother with hiding the
Serial Killer. You should also give some amount of help in trying to kill off characters. It makes it
easier on you to give yourself incentives to do so, such as by putting characters with Roles you
want dead in places where it’s easy to kill them.
Another thing you can do is add other methods for Protagonists to kill, such as the Alien or
certain Incidents. Both Protagonists A and B are incentivized to help with the former, and both A
and C are incentivized to help with the latter.
--- PAGE 13 ---
Goading Protagonist B
If you’re trying to make Protagonist B think they might be a Traitor, you’ll want to have at least 4
Acquainted tokens in play by the start of the last loop, while also having some characters who
can realistically still gain one. The Mastermind can’t help much with Goodwill abilities during the
play of the game, so it’s particularly important to be careful when creating the script.
Goodwill 2 abilities can be enabled with a single played card, so let’s classify characters with
them as “extremely realistic”. Characters such as the Class Rep and the Soldier fall in this
group, and characters such as the Boy Student may as well depending on how many possible
targets they have for their abilities. The Office Worker’s ability requires 3 Goodwill, but he joins
this group as an exceptional case.
The next tier is those with easy to use Goodwill 3 abilities, such as the Teacher and the Pop
Idol, who fall under the classification of “realistic”. Characters with Goodwill 3 abilities that have
tighter restrictions, such as the Rich Man’s Daughter or the Shrine Maiden, we’ll call “mostly
realistic”.
Using these groupings, consider extremely realistic characters to be worth 1 point, realistic
characters to be worth 0.6, and mostly realistic characters to be worth 0.3. Including a total of
around 5-6 points worth of characters is by and large pretty safe. Factoring in the number of
loops and days per loop would take up too much paper to explain properly, so we leave
accommodating for those up to you.
As an additional idea, if you want Goodwill 4+ abilities to be an option for Protagonist B,
consider removing Forbid Goodwill from the Mastermind using a special rule.
Goading Protagonist C
If you’re trying to make Protagonist C think they might be a Traitor, you’ll likely need there to be
only 1 or 2 Incidents with unclear culprits by the start of the last loop. It's important to get them
to think that deducing them is possible.
The most important thing is to have your Incidents to be directly related to you winning the
game. If the Mastermind is incentivized to trigger Incidents, Protagonist C plans will
automatically proceed. Also, draw a clear line between Incidents whose culprit is hard to identify
(such as Increasing Unease) and those whose culprit is easy to identify (such as Missing
Person). It will be a problem if a culprit is too hard to single out.
Number of Loops
Take a look at the suggested loop values in the following table. As you can see, the Main Plots
are worth relatively little, but the Subplots that add Traitors are worth a full loop. This is because
--- PAGE 14 ---
the chaos a Traitor creates is advantageous for the Mastermind, and because the Secretkeeper
adds more flexibility.
You should also consider the fact that Table Talk is off. If the Protagonists aren't used to playing
that way, it might be good to tweak your script such that the total loop value is around 0.5 less
than what you actually use.
If you yourself are inexperienced with tuning loop values, setting the number of loops to a static
4 is generally safe. The number of loops has an effect on the Traitor as well, so it's hard to
foresee the effects of changing it. To summarize, the safe bet is to aim for around 3.5 total loop
value, and use 4 loops.
Main Plot
The Final Plan +1.8
The Sealed Conclusion +1.5
World of Rebellion +1.6 (for 3-4 Girls)
The Demon's Script +1.2 (+0.5 for each related Incident)
Giant Time Bomb Yet Again +1.5
Subplots
The Real Monster +1.0
Keeper of Mythology +1.0
I Am the True Detective! +1.0
Crossing World Lines +0.5
Unsafe Trigger +1.0
Social Media Paranoia +0.6
The Mythomaniac's Secret +0.0 (+0.8 if no Secretkeeper)
Incidents
Hospital Incident +0.4
Distortion +0.4
4 Incidents +0.0 (±0.4 for each Incident above/below 4)
--- PAGE 15 ---
Days Per Loop
6 Days -0.2
5 or Fewer Days -0.6
Intrigue in Last Liar
As the Set was based on BT, Intrigue is used in approximately the same ways and has similar
value. Specifically, it matters for:
● Girls: World of Rebellion
● Characters: Key Person, Killer
● Shrine: The Sealed Conclusion
● Hospital: Hospital Incident
● School/City: Factor
● Locations: Giant Time Bomb Yet Again, Distortion
The value of Intrigue on the School/City has increased somewhat as Factors are more likely to
appear, but decreased on characters as there is no Loved One in the Set.
Further Reading
If you would like further resources on creating scripts, please check the "Tragedy Looper Script
Collection". On pages 15-24, you'll find an example and explanation of a full script being
created. There is also a section on pages 30-32 on Taboos and how to avoid creating one,
which can ruin a script.
In both the "Tragedy Looper Script Collection" and "Tragedy Looper Script Collection II" there
are many high-quality scripts taken from places such as the Worldwide Scriptwriting
Competitions, which may provide good ideas and inspiration.
(TL Note: Unfortunately neither of these currently have English translations.)
Plot Overview
M: The Final Plan M: The Sealed Conclusion
Essentially Murder Plan. The higher likelihood Similar to The Sealed Item, but because
of a Factor compared to BT means that 2 Intrigue on the Shrine now leads to
Intrigue on the City can make for a good CS. Protagonist death, the possible CSs are very
PPs can be on the strong side, but if you different. You can bluff the Factor as a Key
skillfully include access to Hope counters you Person, or the whole Plot as The Demon's
can create an option for the Protagonists to Script. Leaning into Despair counters often
--- PAGE 16 ---
unify and break through. makes for a more interesting script.
M: World of Rebellion M: The Demon's Script
Essentially Sign With Me! A Devil now joins Essentially Change of Future, but of lower
the Goddess. Both are cute. The difficulty is difficulty. Usually you try to win with an
about the same, so you can play the script Incident while placing Intrigue on Girls and
out in a similar way to before. Two Roles are locations. We suggest using either the Patient
now restricted, so include more Girls than in or Black Cat as the Watcher; doing so makes
BT; we suggest around 3-5. the script more stable and helps with your
CS.
M: Giant Time Bomb Yet Again S: The Real Monster
Essentially Giant Time Bomb. The Brain A betrayal by one who saw the truth in the
makes it easier to use, and harder for the world of Haunted Stage. It's best used if the
Protagonists. Viable CSs are Intrigue on Mastermind also wants to make use of the
Girls, and triggering Last Will or The Serial Killer, and there are other ways for
Executor. There's no way for the loop to end characters to die, such as Murder. See the
early, so it's also good for encouraging main part of this guide for details.
Traitors.
S: Keeper of Mythology S: I Am the True Detective!
A betrayal by one who saw the truth in the A betrayal by one who saw the truth in the
world of Cosmic Mythology. Pay extra world of Mystery Circle. Don't add Incidents
attention to how easy it is to use the that won't trigger unless the Protagonists
characters' Goodwill abilities. Think of trigger them. All Incidents should directly
characters whose abilities all take 4 or more contribute to the Mastermind's win condition.
Goodwill as difficult. See the main part of this See the main part of this guide for details.
guide for details.
S: Crossing World Lines S: Unsafe Trigger
Continues from its appearance in the Makes its triumphant return from Midnight
Observer's Handbook. As before, it makes Zone. Like before, it’s stable and easy to use.
the second loop extremely easy to win, so it Add some other features that care about
can help with script stability while also driving Intrigue on locations and voilà, you have an
up the tension. We recommended planning interesting script. This also can serve as a CS
on having someone die in the first loop to for The Sealed Conclusion.
bluff a Fragment.
S: Social Media Paranoia S: The Mythomaniac's Secret
Makes it less clear who the Traitor is. If you Fundamentally different depending on if
pair it with any of the Plots that adds a Traitor, there’s a Traitor or not. If there is, it makes
it makes it possible for any of the hiding the Secretkeeper easier. If not, it adds
Protagonists to be the real Traitor. Be sure to an additional Role and raises the difficulty. Be
keep stringing the Traitor along by keeping careful to not make a Taboo when choosing
their victory condition possible. the Role. Note that this always adds Goodwill
Refusal.
--- PAGE 17 ---
Sample Script Collection
Thetimehascometoenterthefinaldoor,andtakeyourplaceuponthefinalstage.
The following pages contain 5 sample scripts, meant for players who wish to jump right in and
experience Last Liar.
The rules of LL aren’t particularly difficult to work with. The only extra setup required is dealing
out the Extra Cards at the start of the game, and Protagonists can generally just play as normal
until there’s a moderate possibility that they are a Traitor. Which Extra Card they received even
gives them a direction to work towards.
While Table Talk off is mandatory, it could be said that this is a better environment than BT to
use that rule for the first time. For example, if a player makes a play that normally would be seen
as a mistake, here it can also be seen as a Traitor doing their own thing. The individual
responsibility of each player is lower, so it’s less likely to create a hostile atmosphere, while still
allowing for the presence of a hostile Traitor.
The balance of scripts in LL, however, differs greatly from that of other Tragedy Sets. We
recommend you experience what that means for yourself by playing the sample scripts included
here.
We suggest the first script you play is the first of these scripts, but relative to other Sets, the
difference in complexity between the first, second, and third scripts isn’t too big, so the latter two
are also viable options. The fourth and fifth scripts are intended for experienced players, so you
should only play them if everyone has played with LL at least once before.
After you’ve gone through the sample scripts, it’s a good time to try creating your own. With your
understanding of LL’s unique balance, you will surely create a masterpiece that none other
could. All that’s left is to invite the Protagonists to your stage.
Notes for the Mastermind
Script Titles
You should only reveal the name of the script you’re playing after the game is over, as the
names of some scripts contain spoilers.
Table Talk
Table Talk must be set to off in LL.
--- PAGE 18 ---
Number of Loops
Scripts for LL don’t have options for how many loops they have, and also don’t have difficulty
ratings.
Increasing the number of loops makes it easier for the Protagonists to win, but also gives the
Traitor more time to complete their goal. Because of this, changing the number of loops doesn’t
serve the purpose of adjusting difficulty well. Difficulty ratings are similar; if the Protagonists
have a hard time winning it may be because of the Traitor rather than the Mastermind. To that
end, it’s unclear exactly whom a difficulty rating would be meant for.
Scripts
(TL Note: I have instead placed the scripts each in their own separate document as a form of
protection against accidental spoilers.)
1. Last Liar Sample Script 1
2. Last Liar Sample Script 2
3. Last Liar Sample Script 3
4. Last Liar Sample Script 4
5. Last Liar Sample Script 5
Credits
Game Design: BakaFire
Art: NEKOG
Rulebook: BakaFire
Playtest: 十六夜, option, gleipnil, 佐藤将大, 鈴木龍道, souma, たらみ,
たろいも, ヒナタペロ王子, ロキルス, ローヴェレ
Sample Script Design: See individual script pages
Printed By: タチキタプリント
Tragedy Looper Expansion ③ Last Liar
Publication Date: 2021/12/03, by BakaFire
Copyright: BakaFire Party
http://bakafire.main.jp/rooper/sr_top.htm
Postscript
Hello, this is BakaFire. I’m always going on about being busy all the time, but I’m finally
beginning to realize that in life, not being busy isn’t a thing that actually happens. Though I have
a bit of leeway right now, lurking around the corner is the upcoming Sakura Arms expansion and
--- PAGE 19 ---
alt-art card collection that I’ve been working on alongside Tragedy Looper Rei. Just thinking
about it makes me anxious.
This box is the first addition to Tragedy Looper in around 5 years. True to the name “Last”, I’m
working on this with the sense that it will be the final expansion to the series. It’s definitely the
case that the worthwhile design space is drying up, so if I were to make another, I would need a
fundamental new idea such as the one I brought to Rei.
I’m basically asking for it by writing that, aren’t I? Future me will probably end up coming up with
some great new idea and make Tragedy Looper Returns or whatever. But for now, the series
will be taking a rest. It would make me so happy if you continued to cheer me on as you enjoy
your homecoming to this final world.
May we meet again in Sakura Arms, or in another future work!
-BakaFire, 2021/09/18, from home
(TL Note: Sakura Arms is great and you should try it if you haven’t.)