--- PAGE 1 ---
Tragedy Looper Rei
Another Horizon
Thepsi-functionoftheentiresystem
wouldexpressthisbyhavinginitthe
livinganddeadcat(pardontheexpression)
mixedorsmearedoutinequalparts.
—ErwinSchrdinger
--- PAGE 2 ---
Tragedy Set — Another Horizon
Ontheothersideofthemirrorwasaworldwethoughtweknew.
Set Concept
Another Horizon Revised (AH) is a Tragedy Set aimed at advanced players. Both the complexity
of the rules and the required skill level to manage them are higher than for other Sets, so before
using it, players should have a good understanding of BT, and as much experience with other
expansion Tragedy Sets as possible. AH is for those insatiable few who have mastered the rest
of Tragedy Looper as a whole, and want to explore its innermost workings. To those people, let
us proceed beyond even the “Last” stage, and into the hall of mirrors.
The Tragedy Set is based on the concepts of “Excess” and “Transcendence”. It exists as a
bonus stage for those who have travelled through many worlds, returned to where it all began,
fought what was to be the final fight, and yet still hunger for more.
The defining feature of AH is the parallel worlds in which it takes place. The Protagonists travel
between the two worlds to escape the tragedies, while being toyed with by the whims of the
changing world. But the Mastermind is also subject to those whims; as the world transforms, so
may the hearts of the characters that the Mastermind would call their pawns.
Games played with this Tragedy Set require both the Mastermind and the Protagonists to use
their wits to a degree not yet seen in the series, as they will have to make use of not only the
parallel worlds, but also the lasting effects of the looping universe in order to win. It could be
said that this has transcended the realm of deduction game to become a true clash of minds.
Extra Gauge: Parallel Worlds
The Extra Gauge is used in AH to represent which world the players are currently in. At the start
of each loop, set the Extra Gauge to 0. While the Gauge is an even number, the players are in
the Light World; while it is odd, the players are in the Dark World.
Warping
Many abilities and effects in this Set “trigger a Warp”. If one or more Warps are triggered on a
given day, at the end of that day, increase the Extra Gauge by 1. This increase happens before
any other effects during the Day end phase, including Mandatory effects. Note that even if
multiple Warps are triggered on the same day, the Gauge still only increases by 1.
The Mastermind is not obliged to announce when a Warp is triggered. As such, if a Warp is
triggered, but the loop ends before the end of that day, they can hide the fact that it triggered at
all.
--- PAGE 3 ---
1x∞ Goodwill Abilities and Warping
In addition to effects that trigger a Warp, a Warp is automatically triggered after each time any
player, Protagonist or Mastermind, uses a 1x∞ Goodwill ability. (Thematically these abilities
have a powerful effect on the world, causing instability in the timeline.)
Change of Heart
In the Dark World, Goodwill and Paranoia are inverted. Specifically:
● When determining if an Incident triggers, Goodwill is counted instead of Paranoia.
● When determining if a Goodwill ability can be used, Paranoia is counted instead of
Goodwill.
The effects of these counters are only switched for those purposes, not for any others. For
example, the Fragment’s ability will always count the actual Goodwill counters on them and not
Paranoia counters. Cards such as Forbid Goodwill and Forbid Paranoia are similarly unaffected.
Puppeted Goodwill Refusal
Puppeted Goodwill Refusal is a new form of Goodwill Refusal. In addition to providing the basic
effect of Goodwill Refusal, the Mastermind may use the Goodwill abilities of a character with
Puppeted Goodwill Refusal during the Mastermind abilities phase, provided that there are
sufficient counters on that character. When they do, they must announce what ability is being
used, and any targets that ability has, if applicable.
Dual Roles
Some Plots add a Dual Role such as “L: Obstinate / D: Key Person”. On the Mastermind’s script
card, that Dual Role should be assigned in full to a single character. In this example, that
character is an Obstinate while in the Light World, and a Key Person while in the Dark World.
Both parts of a Dual Role must be correctly identified to count as successful for the Final Guess.
Dual Roles ignore Role maxima and other restrictions on assigning Roles. For example, the
Little Sister can be assigned “L: Key Person / D: Brain” despite the Brain having Goodwill
Refusal.
Changes to Starting Action Cards
The Protagonists additionally each have a Paranoia +2 (1x∞) card, and the Mastermind
additionally has a Goodwill +1 card. Furthermore, the Mastermind also adds a Despair +1 (1x∞)
card to their hand for the first loop only. (On later loops, they only gain it if an effect allows them
to do so.)
--- PAGE 4 ---
Kinds of Counters
If an effect references the kinds of counters on a character, it counts how many of the following
types of counters are on that character: Paranoia, Goodwill, Intrigue, Hope, Despair, and Guard
(from the Police Officer). Note that while a Despair counter has the effects of both Paranoia and
Intrigue, it only counts as Despair determining the kinds of counters actually on that character. A
similar thing is true for Hope.
The Servant's Loyalty token, as well as Perished and Acquainted tokens, are considered
tokens, not counters, and are not counted for this purpose.
(TL Note: In the Z-Man Games English edition, "Guard counters" were translated as "Guard
markers". In the original Japanese, they are officially "counters" for the purposes of this rule and
abilities such as the Scientist's or Forensic Specialist's.)
Plot Overview
Four of the Main Plots provide loss conditions for the end of the loop. The Mastermind should
have an idea about which of these they wish to use as a Cover Story (CS). The conditions are
set up in a way that they provide support for each other. For example, winning by triggering Last
Will in Dimensional Merger also progresses the condition for Mother Goose Mystery, while the
Obstinate provided by Into Nothingness can act as a bluff for The Forbidden Future.
(TL Note: The original says “as a bluff for Dimensional Merger”, but I can’t see why that would
work as such, so I translated it thinking it’s a typo for The Forbidden Future. I might also just be
missing something though.)
Summary Sheet
A translated summary sheet is available here: Another Horizon Summary.png
--- PAGE 5 ---
Main Plots
The Forbidden Future Fairy-Tale Murderer
Roles: Roles:
“L: Obstinate / D: Key Person”, Marionette, Key Person, Lullaby, Brain
Storyteller
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
If the players are in the Light World at the (None)
end of the loop, the Protagonists lose.
Mother Goose Mystery Dimensional Merger
Roles: Roles:
Marionette, Storyteller Storyteller, Shifter, Fragment
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
If there are X or more corpses at the end of If Last Will or Left Behind has triggered this
the loop, the Protagonists lose. X is the loop, at the end of the loop, the Protagonists
current loop number, to a maximum of 3. lose.
Into Nothingness
Roles:
Obstinate, Marionette, Brain
Additional Rules:
If the sum of the Extra Gauge and the
number of Intrigue counters on the
Obstinate added by this Plot is 3 or more at
the end of the loop, the Protagonists lose.
--- PAGE 6 ---
Subplots
Jekyll and Hyde The Plaguebringer
Roles: Roles:
“L: Key Person / D: Brain”, Marionette “L: Pied Piper / D: Gossip”
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
(None) (None)
Puppeteer’s Strings Through the Looking-Glass
Roles: Roles:
Fragment, Gossip, “L: Person / D: Serial “L: Conspiracy Theorist / D: Serial Killer”,
Killer” Alice
Alice must be a Girl
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
All types of Goodwill Refusal become (None)
Puppeted Goodwill Refusal (including
Mandatory Goodwill Refusal and that granted
by Despair counters).
Crossing World Lines Unspeakable Horrors
Roles: Roles:
Conspiracy Theorist “L: Conspiracy Theorist / D: Obstinate”,
Gossip
Additional Rules: Additional Rules:
At the start of even numbered loops, the If the Extra Gauge is 3 or higher, at the end of
the day, you may kill the Protagonists.
Mastermind adds "Despair +1" to hand. At the
start of the final loop, the Protagonists add
"Hope +1" to hand.
Hysteria Virus
Roles:
Fragment, Conspiracy Theorist, Gossip
Additional Rules:
While in the Dark World, characters whose
original Roles were either Person or
Fragment and have 2 or more kinds of
counters on them instead become Serial
Killers.
--- PAGE 7 ---
Roles
Key Person Obstinate
Max: None Max: None
Mandatory Goodwill Refusal
Abilities: Abilities:
[Mandatory] When this character dies, the [Mandatory] This character must be the
Protagonists lose, and the loop immediately culprit of an Incident.
ends. [Mandatory] When determining if an Incident
triggers for which this character is the culprit,
it always triggers regardless of the number of
counters on them.
Plots: Plots:
The Forbidden Future (D) The Forbidden Future (L)
Fairy-Tale Murderer Into Nothingness
Jekyll and Hyde (L) Unspeakable Horrors (D)
Marionette Lullaby
Max: None Max: None
Puppeted Goodwill Refusal Puppeted Goodwill Refusal
Abilities: Abilities:
[Mandatory] After resolving this character’s [Mandatory] After resolving this character’s
Goodwill ability, if there are 2 or more kinds of Goodwill ability, the target of that ability dies.
counters on this character, they die, and you [Optional] (1x∞) During the Mastermind
trigger a Warp. abilities phase, you may place 1 Paranoia or
Goodwill counter on a character at this
character’s location.
[Optional] At the end of the day, if there are 4
or more kinds of counters on this character,
you may kill the Protagonists.
Plots: Plots:
The Forbidden Future Fairy-Tale Murderer
Mother Goose Mystery
Into Nothingness
Jekyll and Hyde
Storyteller Brain
Max: None Max: None
Unkillable Goodwill Refusal
Abilities: Abilities:
[Optional] If the Extra Gauge is 1 or higher, [Optional] During each Mastermind abilities
--- PAGE 8 ---
during each Mastermind abilities phase, you phase, you may place 1 Intrigue counter on
may move 1 counter between two other this character’s location, or on a character at
characters at this character’s location. that location.
[Mandatory] At the start of the loop, if the
Extra Gauge was 3 or more at the end of the
previous loop, the Protagonists add "Hope
+1" to hand.
Plots: Plots:
The Forbidden Future Fairy-Tale Murderer
Mother Goose Mystery Into Nothingness
Dimensional Merger Jekyll and Hyde (D)
Shifter Serial Killer
Max: None Max: None
Unkillable
Abilities: Abilities:
[Mandatory] Ignore Forbid Goodwill cards [Mandatory] At the end of the day, if there is
played on this character. exactly 1 other character at this character’s
[Optional] At the end of the last day, if there location, that character dies.
are 2 or fewer kinds of counters on this
character, you may kill the Protagonists.
Plots: Plots:
Dimensional Merger Puppeteer’s Strings (D)
Through the Looking-Glass (D)
Hysteria Virus (D*)
Conspiracy Theorist Alice
Max: 1 Max: None
Abilities: Abilities:
[Optional] During each Mastermind abilities [Mandatory] At the end of the loop, if this
phase, you may place 1 Paranoia counter on character is dead, the Protagonists lose.
a character at this character’s location. [Mandatory] (1x∞) After this character’s
Goodwill ability resolves, if the Extra Gauge is
1 or higher, place 1 Hope counter on each
other character at this character’s location.
Plots: Plots:
Through the Looking-Glass (L) Through the Looking-Glass
Crossing World Lines
Unspeakable Horrors (L)
Hysteria Virus
Fragment Pied Piper
--- PAGE 9 ---
Max: None Max: None
Goodwill Refusal
Abilities: Abilities:
[Mandatory] At the start of the loop, if this [Mandatory] (1x∞) At the end of the day, if the
character was dead at the end of the previous Extra Gauge is 2 or higher, one character at
this character’s location dies.
loop, the Mastermind adds "Despair +1" to
[Optional] At the end of the day, you may
hand.
place 1 Intrigue counter on a corpse at this
[Mandatory] At the start of the loop, if this
character’s location. Then, if there is a total of
character was alive and had 2+ Goodwill at
3 or more Intrigue counters on all corpses
the end of the previous loop, the Protagonists
combined, kill the Protagonists.
add "Hope +1" to hand.
Plots: Plots:
Dimensional Merger The Plaguebringer (L)
Puppeteer’s Strings
Hysteria Virus
Gossip
Max: 1
Abilities:
[Optional] During each Mastermind abilities
phase, you may place 1 Goodwill counter on
a character at this character’s location.
[Mandatory] When this character dies, place
1 Despair counter on a character at this
character’s location, and you may trigger a
Warp.
Plots:
The Plaguebringer (D)
Puppeteer’s Strings
Unspeakable Horrors
Hysteria Virus
--- PAGE 10 ---
Incidents
Crime of Passion Dimensional Distortion
One other character at the culprit’s location Trigger a Warp.
dies, if possible. When determining if this Incident triggers, it
When determining if this Incident triggers, always triggers regardless of the number of
treat the culprit’s Paranoia Limit as 1 lower. counters on the culprit.
Dimensional Perversion Dimensional Fracture
You may trigger a Warp. You may trigger a Warp.
Place 2 Paranoia counters on any character, If there are 3 or more kinds of counters on the
and 2 Goodwill counters on any other culprit, kill the Protagonists.
character.
Left Behind Phantasmal Incident
Place 1 Intrigue counter on a character at the Resolve the effect of Crime of Passion,
culprit’s location, then move the culprit to any Dimensional Perversion, or Left Behind.
location. When determining if this Incident triggers,
refer to the number of Intrigue counters on
the culprit instead of the original type of
counter.
Hospital Incident Last Will
If there are 1 or more Intrigue counters on the The culprit dies. At the start of the next loop,
Hospital, each character there dies. the Protagonists add "Hope +1" to hand.
Furthermore, if there are 2 or more Intrigue
counters on the Hospital, kill the Protagonists.
The Singularity Seeping Daylight
If the players are in the Light World, trigger a The Leader chooses a character. Place 1
Warp. Furthermore, if this is the first time this Hope counter on that character.
game that this Incident triggered, kill the
Protagonists.
If the players are in the Dark World and there
is 1 or more Intrigue counter on the culprit’s
starting location, kill the Protagonists.
The Murk of Despair
Place 1 Despair counter on any character.
--- PAGE 11 ---
Script Creation Guide
Introduction
This section is meant for Masterminds intent on creating their own scripts with Another Horizon
(AH), and explains some things that are important to know when doing so. It can also be used
as a reference for how to navigate through games as the Mastermind. As this is aimed at
Masterminds, it is recommended that players who intend on playing the Protagonist side to not
read this section to start with. There is a very real risk that doing so will result in being able to
enjoy the Tragedy Set less.
This section will use the abbreviations PP (Power Play) and CS (Cover Story) as described in
the original Mastermind’s Handbook included in the base game. For a detailed explanation of
those terms, please refer to that handbook.
(TL Note: In the Z-Man Games English Translation, “Cover Story” was instead “Coverup”, and
the acronyms were not used.)
The Mastermind Increases the Extra Gauge
The Extra Gauge is an important factor in AH, so therefore we should discuss the particulars of
how it works. The first point we will touch upon is the fact that the side who generally wants to
increase it is the Mastermind side.
The clear reason for this is that while the Gauge is 0, it’s hard for the Mastermind to win. Even in
scripts where winning under that condition is possible, actually doing so shuts off many possible
CSs, so raising it still has value and makes for a more interesting script.
It’s easy to see why the above is true with a quick glance at the Main Plots. It’s obviously the
case for Into Nothingness. The Forbidden Future is usually easier to win by Warping from the
Dark World to the Light World on the last day, rather than trying to just stay in the Light World.
It’s easier for characters to die in the Dark World in Mother Goose Mystery, so you’ll want to
Warp to it when possible. Even Subplots and Incidents such as The Plaguebringer,
Unspeakable Horrors, and The Singularity are harder to use without having increased the Extra
Gauge.
With the above in mind, the Protagonists don’t really have a reason to increase the Gauge. If
they just leave it alone, the Mastermind could lose without having to do anything else. As such,
it’s risky to create a script that assumes the Protagonists will increase the Gauge, especially in
the first loop.
It follows that for most scripts, you’ll want to prepare a way for the Mastermind to trigger a Warp
in the early game. A simple way of doing so is setting a Dimensional Distortion on Day 1 or 2. If
you want to allow for the possibility of the Warp being prevented or delayed, you can instead try
--- PAGE 12 ---
using a Dimensional Perversion or Dimensional Fracture, giving Puppeted Goodwill Refusal to a
character with a 1x∞ Goodwill ability, or making use of a Marionette.
Of course, this isn’t the end of the story. Let’s also look at some cases where the Protagonists
may wish to Warp.
Protagonists May Warp to Avoid a PP
As mentioned above, the Protagonists normally won’t try to increase the Extra Gauge. But it’s a
different story if not doing so would lead to their loss, or is risky for some other reason.
Let’s look at an example of the former involving Incidents. Suppose you set a particularly
dangerous Incident on Day 2 or 3, with the culprit being a Conspiracy Theorist or Obstinate. In
that case, the Protagonists are encouraged to try to Warp on Day 1 or 2. To that end, you should
provide them with ample easy-to-use 1x∞ Goodwill abilities, such as on the Class Rep, Soldier,
or Godly Being.
An example of the latter is that in the Light World, there can be 2 Conspiracy Theorists, which
are easy to hide but hard to differentiate. Staying in the Light World risks allowing Incident after
Incident to be triggered, resulting in a Protagonist loss with little information gained, such as
multiple Crimes of Passion fulfilling the loss condition for Mother Goose Mystery without even
entering the Dark World. If the Protagonists lose in that way in the first loop, they may try to
increase the Gauge to avoid the same fate.
If the Gauge is already 1 or higher, then there’s many possible reasons for them to want to
increase it further. Increasing it from 1 to 2 can stop Serial Killers and blunt The Singularity,
while raising it from 2 to 3 can stop a Pied Piper. As such, you don’t need to worry nearly as
much about raising the Gauge beyond 1 as you do about raising it to 1 to begin with.
Protagonists May Warp to Gain Information
Experienced Protagonists may also try to increase the Gauge to gain information. Increasing it
to 1 can reveal Alice or a Serial Killer, increasing it to 2 can reveal a Pied Piper, and increasing it
to 3 can reveal a Storyteller. Whether doing so is actually a good idea depends heavily on the
script and the board state, so we’ll reserve judgment on that here. However, you should
definitely not rely on them doing this, but in scripts aimed at high-level players it might be a good
idea to make sure it’s at least an option.
Protagonists May Warp Incidentally
It’s also possible that the Protagonists may Warp without specifically trying to do so, as a side
effect of using 1x∞ Goodwill abilities. Such abilities are generally quite powerful, which is why
they’re 1x∞ to begin with, so the Protagonists are already incentivized to use them. The Shrine
--- PAGE 13 ---
Maiden’s Goodwill 5 ability is of course very strong, and characters such as the Teacher and the
Alien tend to attract Goodwill +2 if the Mastermind doesn’t play a card on them.
If you provide access to such abilities, you can expect them to cause the Extra Gauge to
increase at some point. However, because the expectation is only “at some point”, you shouldn’t
expect them to be used at any specific part of the game. For example, don’t rely on the
Protagonists to use them on the first loop.
To put it another way, the Gauge will incidentally be increased from time to time over the course
of the game, meaning there will be loops where it will be higher than what you would otherwise
have planned. Which loop(s) that will be depends on the Protagonists, so you won’t exactly
know when it will happen, but when making a script, it’s a good idea to have a plan for what to
do on loops when the Gauge is particularly high.
A straightforward example is in Unspeakable Horrors, you can plan to win with that Plot’s rule if
the Protagonists happen to use two 1x∞ Goodwill abilities in a single loop. A more common
example would be saying something like “In this script, the Extra Gauge will usually be
increased twice. On loops when the Protagonists use a 1x∞ ability to increase it a third time, I’ll
place Paranoia on this culprit and win by killing the Key Person.” Details such as these can
make for more compelling scripts.
Managing the Gauge
Let’s take what we’ve learned so far and apply it to a script. First, consider where you plan to
have the Gauge be at the end of the loop (excluding cases where the loop ends early such as a
Key Person death). Choose from among the following:
0-1: A script that doesn’t rely much on the Extra Gauge. It may be a point of contention
how the side that wants to increase it will do so.
1-2: A standard script. The Mastermind tries to move to the Dark World, and the
Protagonists try to move back.
2-3: A script where the Gauge gets increased relatively often. If you want it to reach 3,
make sure to include enough ways to do so.
3-4: A grand script. It’s hard to achieve this without at least 7 days per loop. Requires a lot
of preparation and determination.
Next, decide what methods for increasing it you wish to include. It’s a good idea to divide these
into ways that can reliably be used to increase the Gauge, and ways that can be reasonably
prevented. An example of the former for the Protagonists is the Class Rep or Soldier’s 1x∞
abilities, while an example of the latter for the Mastermind is setting the Girl Student as the
culprit of a Dimensional Perversion.
You should use a reliable method to avoid what would otherwise be an unreasonable or
unenjoyable situation, whereas you should use a preventable method if you want it to be a point
of conflict for the players to fight over. For example, if the script wouldn’t be interesting unless
--- PAGE 14 ---
the Extra Gauge is increased at least once, you should provide a reliable Gauge increase to the
Mastermind, or if there would be an otherwise unavoidable PP, you need to provide one to the
Protagonists.
With all of the above in mind, consider which side you expect to want to increase the Gauge at
any given moment, and choose which options to give them as appropriate. Let’s look at two
examples:
Ex1. Expected Gauge: 1-2 (Mastermind, Mastermind)
A script that uses a Serial Killer in the Dark World to win with the rule from Mother Goose
Mystery. You decide to set a Dimensional Distortion on Day 2 to trigger the initial Warp.
However, once the Serial Killer has been revealed, it’s hard to win with them alone. As a
backup, you plan on using the Marionette Rich Man’s Daughter’s ability to Warp back to
the Light World and make a PP involving the Pied Piper.
The first of these is a reliable Warp, whereas the second is preventable.
Ex2. Expected Gauge: 2-3 (Protagonists, Mastermind, Protagonists)
You have a PP set up to have the Key Person Rich Man’s Daughter trigger Last Will on
Day 3, so you also provide the Protagonists a way to Warp to the Dark World by Day 2,
where she instead becomes a Brain.
If the PP on Day 3 is prevented, you plan on winning with the rule from The Forbidden
Future by Warping back to the Light World with the Marionette or a Dimensional
Distortion on Day 5. In order to allow the Protagonists to escape back to the Dark World,
you need to provide a second way for the Protagonists to Warp on Day 6, such as
another 1x∞ Goodwill ability.
The first of these three Warps must be reliable. It’s probably fine for the other two to be
preventable. The specifics of how to do so is a test of your skill as a scriptwriter.
Number of Loops
As with other Tragedy Sets, we have prepared a quick reference for approximately how many
loops your script should have. Please use it only as a rough estimate.
Main Plot
The Forbidden Future +1.5
Fairy-Tale Murderer +1.4
Mother Goose Mystery +1.8
Dimensional Merger +1.4 (+0.5 for each related Incident)
Into Nothingness +1.8
--- PAGE 15 ---
Subplots
Jekyll and Hyde +0.7
The Plaguebringer +0.8
Puppeteer’s Strings +0.5
Through the Looking-Glass +0.8
Crossing World Lines +0.5
Unspeakable Horrors +0.8
Hysteria Virus +0.6
Incidents
Hospital Incident +0.4
The Singularity +0.6
Dimensional Fracture +0.2
4 Incidents +0.0 (±0.4 for each Incident above/below 4)
Days Per Loop
6 Days -0.2
5 or Fewer Days -0.6
Further Reading
If you would like further resources on creating scripts, please check the "Tragedy Looper Script
Collection". On pages 15-24, you'll find an example and explanation of a full script being
created. There is also a section on pages 30-32 on Taboos and how to avoid creating one,
which can ruin a script.
In both the "Tragedy Looper Script Collection" and "Tragedy Looper Script Collection II" there
are many high-quality scripts taken from places such as the Worldwide Scriptwriting
Competitions, which may provide good ideas and inspiration.
(TL Note: Unfortunately neither of these currently have English translations.)
--- PAGE 16 ---
Plot Overview
M: The Forbidden Future M: Fairy-Tale Murderer
If you just sit around in the Light World, the You can secure a loop by finding a way to kill
Protagonists will use a 1x∞ ability on the last the Key Person, and another by using
day. It’s easier to win by going to the Dark “Despair +1” to kill the Protagonists with the
World, then Warping back on the last day Lullaby. This Plot is unsuited for CSs with
instead. You can also focus on winning by other Main Plots, so you’ll want to set up a
killing the Key Person in the Dark World. nice PP instead.
M: Mother Goose Mystery M: Dimensional Merger
In early loops, you can use any other Main Victory is all but guaranteed in loops where
Plot as a CS for this, or vice-versa. On the the Protagonists don’t have “Hope +1”. Make
other hand, winning in later loops is difficult. sure the related Incidents aren’t too easy to
By itself, this rule can only create 1 corpse, trigger to give them a chance to fight back. It
so use Subplots and Incidents to supplement. makes for an interesting script if you use the
Serial Killers and Pied Pipers are valuable. fact that the Shifter’s GW abilities are easy to
And then, there were… use as a weak point.
M: Into Nothingness S: Jekyll and Hyde
This serves as a great CS for any other Main Pick which half of the Dual Role you want to
Plot by simply placing 2 or so Intrigue on any use as part of a CS. If you choose the Key
Goodwill Refusal character. If you’re going to Person, it adds a win condition and allows
use the Brain, try to do so in the Dark World you to bluff Fairy-Tale Murderer. If you choose
to keep CSs open. There should be at most the Brain, it allows you to more easily bluff
1 reliable way for the Mastermind to Warp. Into Nothingness.
S: The Plaguebringer S: Puppeteer’s Strings
The Extra Gauge being exactly 2 becomes a The key points are the Puppeted Goodwill
point of contention. The Protagonists will Refusal and the Serial Killer. The other two
either want to prevent it from getting there, or Roles generate Despair when they die, so
raise it from 2 to 3. The Pied Piper is very you can use them to add more Goodwill
strong in providing PPs. Ideally you’ll win with Refusal and manipulate the Extra Gauge.
them as a surprise attack the first time the Also keep in mind the ability to conceal
Extra Gauge reaches 2. Mandatory Goodwill Refusal.
S: Through the Looking-Glass S: Crossing World Lines
Easy to use, as it provides a Serial Killer and Continues from its appearance in the
another win condition, plus a Conspiracy Observer's Handbook and Last Liar. As
Theorist in the Light World. A good Plot to before, it makes the second loop extremely
pick if you’re having trouble deciding. The easy to win, so it can help with script stability
Roles themselves are easily revealed, so so while also driving up the tension. We
is this Plot. Don’t rely too much on the win recommended planning on having someone
condition this provides. die in the first loop to bluff a Fragment.
S: Unspeakable Horrors S: Hysteria Virus
--- PAGE 17 ---
Provides a clear incentive to repeatedly The return of Paranoia Virus. The condition
increase the Gauge. The Protagonists can’t for becoming a Serial Killer is easier, though
freely use 1x∞ abilities, so if you make too now restricted to the Dark World. Be careful
strong a PP, they might feel unsatisfyingly that even if a Fragment becomes a Serial
restricted. A good balance is planning to win Killer, the actual effect of the Fragment will
with this just once, when the Gauge happens still effectively function as normal.
to be higher than normal.
Sample Script Collection
Seekyourdreamsinthelandofwonders;prayforignoranceinthelightanddark.
The following pages contain 5 sample scripts, meant for players who wish to jump right in and
experience Another Horizon.
AH is a cut above the average Tragedy Set in terms of complexity. It requires both the
Mastermind and the Protagonists to have the understanding to correctly process the summary
sheet, and the creativity to use that knowledge to create a plan to win the game. Only true
masters pass through even the final world and onto this side stage in search of more.
Creating scripts for AH is, of course, also difficult. That said, for a Mastermind who already has
experience making scripts for all of the other Tragedy Sets, it’s altogether not that much of a
step up. Even so, there’s no doubt that even for such adepts that it would be safer to start by
trying the sample scripts provided here.
We recommend playing the first of these scripts first; it’s a relatively stable way of experiencing
the chaos that is AH. After that, the rest of the scripts can be played in any order. If you’ve come
this far, you probably don’t need any more crude words of guidance. Please enjoy the unending
battle of wits however you see fit.
After finishing all five, you will have reached the utmost limits of Tragedy Looper. From here on
out, I will no longer be the one to provide you with new worlds to explore. If your curiosity is still
unsatiated, then it is time to begin your journey of creating those worlds for yourself, using the
skills and wisdom you’ve gained along the way. But fear not, as our paths will surely cross
again. Until that time comes, I wish you good health, and blessings upon your voyage.
Notes for the Mastermind
Script Titles
You should only reveal the name of the script you’re playing after the game is over, as the
names of some scripts contain spoilers.
--- PAGE 18 ---
Table Talk
We leave the decision of whether or not to allow Table Talk in the provided scripts to the
Mastermind. However, AH has many complicated rules, so we recommend first allowing it even
with advanced players, or first playing 1 vs. 1. Playing without Table Talk might be a bit too
much, even for the most experienced players.
Number of Loops
Choose from the provided options based on the skill level of the Protagonists. If you’re not sure,
go with the higher option to lessen the chance that they feel like it’s too difficult. It’s also a good
idea to ask them what they would prefer, for both this and Table Talk.
Scripts
(TL Note: I have instead placed the scripts each in their own separate document as a form of
protection against accidental spoilers.)
1. Another Horizon Sample Script 1
2. Another Horizon Sample Script 2
3. Another Horizon Sample Script 3
4. Another Horizon Sample Script 4
5. Another Horizon Sample Script 5
Credits
Game Design: BakaFire, 東野K
Art: NEKOG
Rulebook: BakaFire
Playtest: option, gleipnil, souma, たらみ, たろいも, ヒナタペロ王子,
ロキルス
Sample Script Design: See individual script pages
Printed By: タチキタプリント
Tragedy Looper Expansion Ex Another Horizon Revised
Publication Date: 2021/12/03, by BakaFire
Copyright: BakaFire Party
http://bakafire.main.jp/rooper/sr_top.htm
--- PAGE 19 ---
Postscript
Hello, this is BakaFire. Well, it happened. In the Last Liar postscript I was writing from a position
of relative leisure, but time has passed and I have now entered an incredibly busy period. I’ve
gone from anxious from thinking about it, to anxious from being in it.
This Tragedy Set was actually not originally my doing, but the result of the player Higashino K
(東野K), who came to me asking about the possibility of remaking the original Another Horizon.
Third parties are mostly free to do what they wish, but since the plan was to remake an official
Set, he preferred to try to do it officially, under the BakaFire name. Of course, I had to get
involved directly in that case. At the time, I had my hands full with Sakura Arms, so he did the
initial design work by himself, to which I applied a multitude of changes and tweaks. (That’s
where the Tragedy Looper Rei rules came into the picture, and we ended up with a more
interesting product.)
In that way, it would be appropriate to call this a collaborative design. As it was based on the
original AH, I joined the design effort myself, but in general the rules for making derivative works
from the Tragedy Looper series are quite lenient. As mentioned before, the future of the series
might no longer rest with me. I look forward to what everyone will do within and without the
framework provided here, and how they intend to cross beyond even zero.
-BakaFire, 2021/10/15, from home